hello everyone and we are about to begin
if you'd like to take your seats
and so we can stop and but thank you so
much for coming today and my name is
Miss Emmy I work in the hiring team here
at Monday and we are super excited to be
working with Alfredo from Pride and stem
and and although the amazing work in
which they're doing was super excited to
collaborate with them on this event
tonight and just a few things that you
should know we do have toilets at the
back and then also we do have two fire
exits one being over there and then once
you do come out of that door is straight
to your left and then there's also
another fire exit which is the door
which you did come in from we have lots
more pizza and drink so please help
yourself throughout to give vent to do
grab some food and and also we do have
some ones and lots in the room so if you
do have any questions that you'd like to
ask us right at the end of the event
please do find us and says obviously
myself and the team over there who are
giving you a wave and we can answer any
ones very specific questions that you do
have and we do have a really exciting
lineup tonight and we'll also have a Q&A
at the end of the talks so yeah and I
will pass over to Alfredo to kick off
tonight
thank you all right oh hello everyone as
any of you been to one of our event
before give us a cheer okay maybe not
rich ok if you're not being into one of
our events I'm gonna still be funny to
you
which is good I am Alfredo and so am I
I'm afraid of my pronounce are hearing
him mature and founder of brain stem
more of it later I'm an astrophysicist
science journalist and science
communicator but most importantly
tonight I'm a raging homosexual but why
am i raging that it's the key it's
because if you're not raging you're not
been paying any attention about the
state of LGBTQ issues in STEM
this data is from the exploring the LGBT
the workplace environment for LGBTQ
people in physical sciences sciences by
the institute of physics the real sonic
of society and the rough side of
chemistry and we find something that is
quite a Bismil over 20% of LGBT Q+
people in say in physical sciences
consider leaving the workplace and that
goes into one in one in fifth that when
we consider just trans respondents they
consider leaving often more of the same
in when we break down this survey we see
a huge amount of exclusionary behavior
we have about especially for non-binary
people in the data we found that 16% of
LGBT people in thule sciences i've
experienced harassment directly one
third eyewitness harassment to do with
LGBTQ issue on somebody else most people
don't think like there's a big
percentage of people not most people but
there's a big percentage they don't
enjoy being in stem although they want
to be in stem simply the environment is
so toxic and what is surprising to me is
also 10 percent of heterosexual people
so this environment where people can not
be themselves it's damaging
across-the-board obviously for people
that are minority within minority like
sexual conceptual lesbian there's
definite intersectional issues
non-binary people you see how the
percentage of variance rises up this is
this is specific to the UK but this is
not just by the UK our
surveys and there's unfortunately only a
handful still tell us the same story
less than 60% of LGBT people are out one
in 3 us physicists have been advised to
remain in the closet if they want to
continue in their career 50 percent of
transgender non-conforming Hill were
arrests in their department less LGB
students saw sexual minority students
are 7 percent less likely to enter stem
career compared to heterosexual peers
which what was fascinating about that is
a research that was published in science
advances was that the LGB students were
more likely to do more like undergrad
research they appear to be more
passionate about what they were doing
and that really really really bothers me
42 percent of us physicists are advised
not to act to act not not not what gay
or to gay any bothers me because I'm a
physicist
and if you're saying that somebody is
too gay you're implying that there is a
threshold and as a good physicist if you
put down a threshold it means that there
is a scale so what is this scale of gay
accessibility I don't know let's go from
zero to Elton John where is a physicist
can stand in this scale of acceptability
for the powers to be in u.s. Physics
Department the answer is that there is
no point in that scale that you will be
accepted that is an excuse and it can be
applied to any kind of underrepresented
group when I've been discussing this
online I have a lot of women say yes I
hear the same about femininity if I just
go in without makeup they tell me oh are
you sick when I go in I said would make
it is like oh you're always trying to do
all yourself up like you cannot win and
we should stop trying to win we should
to change the game altogether so why
when inter age is because hate slowed
down the progress of institution
discourage individual from becoming role
model which is key to challenge in this
Wednesday set of school and we don't
want that and distract from the work the
people wants to do and costly is told in
the hate mail there constantly gets an
eight messages on Twitter the wonders of
social media that identity politics
shouldn't be part of science turns out
that attendees politics has always been
part of science and we can just think of
the most famous physicists of the 20th
century that had to emigrate from Europe
because they were Jewish and we
celebrate that what they were able to
achieve in the u.s. so identity politics
is part of science there are LGBT
specific challenges that well the entire
mission to change stem in general it's
across the board needs to be
intersectional it to be for all
underrepresented group the LGBTQ
specific challenges that we don't see or
we don't see in the same extent matter
we have some discrimination from peers
and from senior people which is quite
common but we also have lack of
protection lack of resources we are
often not consider our hot minority to
go to color and importantly we have a
lack of role models because people don't
want to be visible because we get hate
so in general some science might happen
in a physical vacuum and no science
happen in a historical one so we need to
be mindful of where we are so what can
we do to change things and I call for an
inclusive and intersectional evolution
we need to create an environment it's
not just about bringing people that are
underrepresented groups into stem but we
need to make sure that they belong there
that they want to be there they're not
gonna face any barriers when they're
there to challenge our own biases first
understand our privilege and me to
actually make this thing happen
so some things that we can all do an
individual level
who's got their pronouns in their emails
okay we have three hands so how about
sir since there should be about 120 of
us at the end of tomorrow
everyone has pronounced in their email
signature that's good way to be an
outlier proactively if you're senior in
your organization shares that much
support like just tell people that you
care and participate in mentorship and
awareness trainings because we always
have more to learn if you're inserted
run an organization have gender-neutral
toilets mark important dates and months
five months local pride marches work
with charities History Month etc and
consult LGBTQ people in your
organization outside your organization
you don't just want to do things to sort
of like oh we need to do this talk to
people understand how you can best serve
them okay now a sprays them so we are
charge double trust so we started three
years ago and we pretty much work in
showcasing and supporting LGBTQ plus
people across the spectrum we run events
like this tinkers so we have social
media presence we do promotional
resources that other people producer and
well before all of this politics that
went a little bit the complicated we
were part of an L Party Parliamentary
Group about how to diversify science we
are not alone luckily there are groups
that do role models like LGBT stem 500
where scientists now unique scientist
there is lots of people do stuff in
social media and there are professional
networks during tech you might have
heard of inter tech but it's also in to
engineering etc and another things that
we do and probably is the thing that I
am most proud of is two years ago we
started LGBT some day which is the
International Day of
people in science technology engineering
and maths online everywhere and for the
last two years has been on July 5th
about anyone from the states that would
agree that it's not the best date
so we're suggesting to move it to
November 18 2020 and if you go on our
social media you can find out why we
pick the date and as you can see is
supported by lots of organization you
might recognize CERN they're the
European Space Agency not many private
organization especially not any banks
just putting it out there you have time
before next year and also it's free you
just need to give me a logo and it's all
good but other than that thank you very
much and welcome our first speaker for
tonight
dr. Krishna moobot bye hello hi I'm the
tiny human you see regularly these
things amazing thank you very much so
I'm Krishna mara Bonnie my name gives
away that I am a bit of a funny
character in general I'll give you a
little bit of a background of where I
come from because it might explain a few
things about Who I am and why I am the
way I am
so I actually grew up in this city now
in the past when I've ever given this
picture up not everybody knows where it
is but I feel like recently everybody
recognizes this city so this is Hong
Kong rarely actually gets in the news
for for bad things but at the moment
it's all a bit complicated and that's
where I was born and that is actually
where I was raised I went to an
all-girls school in the centre of the
city called st. Walt it was a convent
school yes we had none they walked
around and they used rulers beat us on
our knuckles when we tried to write with
our left hands you learn what I've ended
after I left was actually go to the
University of Sheffield and do a degree
in engineer
in engineering with nice nuclear physics
so there's a bit of physics background
that I kind of alter into and get angry
about things as well after that I
actually moved further north and worked
for a small little nuclear power company
it was bnfl back in the day it has kind
of broken up and spread into various
different things and is currently
falling apart as it needs to be
decommissioned I kind of worked for them
for a while and working in engineering
and then working in nuclear power I was
pretty convinced that you couldn't be a
woman in those environments so I kind of
decided I'd had enough of all of that
and I decided I was going to have a
little change of career so when and did
a PhD at Cambridge and eventually
eventually got there it was after that
but I kind of went and worked again for
a very male-dominated environment
and I now work at the Department of
Surgery I'm still an engineer my PhD was
still in engineering but it was in
biomedical devices and so I still work
in the Department of Surgery now in a
ridiculous male-dominated environment so
in my kind of defense I've always liked
stood up and talked about being a woman
in science never really talked about
being hmm a minority of colour in
science nor have I really ever thought
about being gay now my understanding all
kind of how I've always approached
science is science aspera science is
even it doesn't really matter right even
though I've always been one of minority
in pretty much every little sector that
you can pick for me including the whole
height thing because I can never reach
anything so I can never really reach
anything whenever I'm in a lab or I'm in
an office and even in the house I live
in now there is a kick step in my
kitchen because even the bottom shelf in
my kitchen I can't reach so we're just
kind of struggle in general and you kind
of get over it over time you just
realize that struggling is just what you
do um in terms of what I do date
my life is split into two halves so I
managed a project known as the Cambridge
biorepository for translational medicine
yes it's a mouthful
it's called CB TM and and in that realm
I work with tissues and samples so that
we can help research go forwards and on
the other half of what I do is I
actually do some of the research that's
related to it
now for CB TM what we do is we are our
entire aim is to help translate science
from the laboratory into the clinic now
historically people have always done
this by working with small animals and
then working with people and moving
forwards from there now what we want to
try and do is bypass the whole small
animals thing for one very simple reason
small animals and humans not the same
species don't work the same way and in
fact everything we know and understand
about immunology comes from small
animals and we're slowly discovering as
the papers keep coming out that we're
wrong
very very very wrong so all of medicine
that we trust and know and believe in no
very wrong and so this is what I am
trying to do is help move that and go
away from using small animal studies and
actually move towards straight and
working with fresh human tissue at all
possible now in doing that if you were
having a I know I'm gonna pick on
someone over here just cuz it's easier
and if you're having a cancer resection
so a bit of your liver removed because
it was cancerous and if I were to ask
you can I have that cancerous lump that
we're taking out of you to study answer
probably yes now if I were to ask you
now you have a healthy liver I need to
understand what healthy liver looks like
can I have some of your liver now
probably no and that's not exactly
surprising so wild disease tissue in
spite of what everyone thinks is
surprisingly easy to get hold of healthy
tissue on the other hand flipping hard
cuz nobody wants to willingly give me
healthy tissue because you could
potentially be unhealthy as a result of
it
which is understandable so what I do as
part of the CBT n team is we work with
organ donors and organ donors bar for
all intents and purposes are healthy
borrowing that tiny little caveat that
they're a little bit debt so we make use
of tissue from organ donors we consent
we make sure that they are willing to be
tissue donors so organs that are not
transplanted various tissues that don't
get transplanted for different reasons
we're able to collect fresh samples and
make use of them in research that is
what I do this does mean I'm on call 365
days a year and as I said to Alfredo
after this I'm going back to collect
tissue from a donor which will start
roughly about midnight so I work very
closely with the organ donation team I
usually wear and yes I donate badge but
now I wear an LGBTQ one because I'm
trying really hard and what I do on when
I'm not nabbing tissue from organ donors
it's actually what I call a cold war now
everybody sees freezes you all have one
we all know freezing works how we store
most of everything we do in our lives
but in science we also freeze everything
but we don't do what we do in throwing
things into the freezer like we do offer
it's and vegetables when we have
leftovers it's actually slightly more
complicated than that in terms of what I
want to do with my research fitting in
to you how CB TM works is I'd like us to
change the way we do transplantation
so transplantation happens currently in
the way that you have an organ that's
slowly failing you go and see your
doctor they put you on list you wait
until the appropriate organ shows up and
you get your organ hopefully eventually
now what I'd really like to see is
change the way we do that where you come
in you have a nought you know your your
kidneys starting to fail you need a new
kidney and we go right we have some
stopped kidneys they are the right type
match perfectly for you when would you
like to come in for your surgery but
that means we have to be able to keep
these organs and tissues and right now
that is almost virtually impossible and
a heart for example when you have a
heart transplant
it is only roughly about four
and when it comes out of one person that
has to go into another person which
automatically limits where and when we
can have heart transplants and so what
I'm trying to do research wise is
understand how we freeze and store
things and how it all actually happens
now freezing as we all know is
relatively straightforward it's the
formation of ice crystals and if this
actually works I'll be awesome so here
what I've done is freeze water down I've
frozen it very very quickly at roughly
10 degrees a minute so you can see these
tiny tiny little crystals are the ice
crystals formed once the water has
frozen now then I have heated the water
up gradually again at 1 degree per
minute and you can see these ice
crystals instead of getting smaller and
turning into water is that they are
actually gradually getting bigger now
that kind of blows everybody's mind a
little bit I'm hoping because how is it
the fact that I'm melting ice but I'm
making bigger ice crystals before they
melt and turn into water so yeah I'm
playing the daily game of figuring that
out and how that works and why that
works and how we can stop that and
change that from happening so as I was
saying in terms of science I've always
believed it's fairly even and fair even
though it seems really crazy what I do
and slightly out of the box I think it's
possible we can change the way we do
things and that's sort of how I'd like
to see science when it comes to being a
minority in research it should be fair
it should be even it should be fine it
shouldn't matter the fact that I'm gay
straight or whatever or orange or green
or a monkey I give a description about
how I read a research paper I read a
research paper I glanced at the title I
look at who wrote the paper but actually
I only barely glanced at who wrote the
paper because I need to refer to the
paper by a name but who that name is
attached to doesn't actually matter to
me whether they are male a female or a
frickin monkey or you know three-eyed
alien actually doesn't change the way I
do my research so I want research to be
fair and I want research to not matter
to whether you are a minority color
gender sexuality it shouldn't matter I
know it
because it's how we all feel when we do
our research
no three years ago before I started
working for the team I do now I really
wasn't quite confident about who I was
or how I looked at things or what people
thought with me quite often if the con
if anyone ever hinted at the fact that I
was maybe gay and I'm you know I didn't
really hide it it's pretty obvious based
on the way I dress in my hair
um I run the other way and my lab mate
to the time thought it was funny because
they would genuinely be a tiny crush
shaped all wherever I was as I ran away
and then I moved into the lab I'm in now
male dominated it is it is not very
different from any other lab I've worked
in it's just the approach of the foci
work that's slightly different that made
me a bit more confident my boss at the
time he would refer to everybody he
would use gender-neutral terms
apparently that mattered to me he would
refer to people's partners he never said
or to automatically assumed boyfriend or
girlfriend he would always refer to
people as partners and he was always
very careful about these things now I
never thought that mattered but I feel
that each time in every conversation if
you take that little bit of care you
make everyone feel more comfortable in
their own skin and now I don't actually
think about it
I'm just Who I am and in my mind it
helps me in how I approach my science
because I'm not constantly in fear and
not constantly slightly slightly hiding
away I'm not constantly kind of on edge
listening out for someone who might
think I'm gay and then running I'm just
me I'm more relaxed I'm able to look at
a problem I'm really able to be a bit
more free in my approach and I think
that makes me a better scientist for it
and so while I want to believe that it's
scientists fair and even and in some
aspects it is and it's really down to
how you think about it and how you feel
about it that it is really how you do
your science and how you do
you who you are in science that really
matters whether you are green brown
orange pink or you know three-eyed or
not so that's pretty much what I have to
say about it and I'm sure I'll take
questions afterwards all right please
work
thank you very much awesome Thank You
Krishna and we have next set I don't
know if sighs I don't need that awesome
Chris thank you so I don't have any
slides I'm just gonna talk so I work
here at monza my name is Jordan I lead
our business banking team at monza so
those who knew Manzo were a personal
current account but the team that I work
with has been trying to extend that to
help with small businesses and if you
have a small business and need a
business current account we got you I
won't talk much about it but the reason
I'm here right now is because our lovely
organizers afraid and offend me Sylvia
excited wrote in slack a few days ago
and just said okay we have this great
events happening at Monceau on Tuesday
would anyone like to volunteer and in
the post I immediately reacted emoji
reactive you use emojis a lot at Monza
with the wave and I didn't think twice
about it and I didn't know why and I
said I just messaged in FME and Sylvie I
was like hey how can I help like I'm
happy to help at the door or I'm happy
to talk and now I know now I'm here
but basically what I thought about when
I looked back at it why volunteered I
think it's because Monza has been
incredibly life-changing to me and it
was hard to pinpoint why because when
new feminine still be asked what things
that we could talk about they said can
you talk about some of your struggles as
LGBT in stem and I thought to myself I'm
quite fortunate I haven't had a lot of
struggles and that I've had a really
good career I'm so lucky to work at this
amazing company that I am so fortunate I
have an amazing partner up here and said
what are my struggles and I thought
about a lot of those struggles were
internal to me and I thought about the
people who helped me get to where I am
today and the way that Mazda was
important to me as a person in my
personal growth in the past years and I
thought I think that's why I volunteered
so quickly to talk here because even
though outwardly and overtly it didn't
feel like I had a lot of struggles
the things that people did for me and
the things that Manzo's done for me have
been so kind and implicit and its really
helped me grow and I want to share those
things with everyone here today because
whether you're in the same boat as me
and you need someone to look up to in a
role model or maybe it's that you
yourself are feeling okay and you don't
realize the impact that you're having on
others I think it's really important to
talk about how to really make people
feel like they belong somewhere and how
to make them realize their full
potential so I'll just start by telling
my story bit I'm American obviously so I
came to London about three years ago but
before that I was in Union well what I
was working but I'll start my story in
uni I went to uni middle of America
Indiana University so when you think of
American colleges like that is the
epitome of yet big sport school I joined
a fraternity and I was in a very I guess
heteronormative culture from the start I
went to business school I was an
accounting major and from there was like
that's the standard like
hyper-masculinity
be very be very important don't show too
much like no vulnerability and I joined
KPMG after work which is just a big four
accounting firm and did consulting and I
was going from client to client and I
was I think quite successful when I was
doing but what I realized was I was
hiding a big part myself and they felt
like I was leading a double life because
every time I had a new client I
basically had to put on the shield being
like I am the most important most
masculine most kind of put together
human being it could be because I was I
was young
talking to c-level executives at big
companies and to me being gay was a flaw
and that was something that was just
ingrained for me in the start and I
don't know why it just was something I
felt like was a flaw and come to winter
of 2017 I made my first gay friends I
guess and they I was living in Chicago
at the time and they moved to San
Francisco and they said hey we're in San
Francisco do you want to come over like
come visit us we'll go on wine tours
great and so I when I visited and we
went to Napa Valley which is amazing and
we went to Mara woods which is beautiful
but what stuck out to me the most in
that entire trip was a brunch that we
had on Sunday and I haven't really said
this the person who hosted the brunch
yet but it's something that I hope
kind of resonated some people here but
that was a room filled of 12 gay men I'd
never met before and for the first time
I'd met a bunch of gay men who to me
were the epitome of success so I walked
in this door and there's this man
Michaels house and right when you walk
in there's a big picture of him and
Steve Jobs holding hands and shaking
hands and it's because he was one of the
earliest employees at Apple and I said
holy cow you know Steve Jobs he's like
yeah Steve Jobs fired me okay kid Steve
Jobs end up rehiring him and Michael
you're watching thank you for this but
basically that was like a turning point
in my mind of what it could mean to be a
gay man out in a company and I'd never
really thought about it before because
before that I was just kind of always
hiding and I got to speaking to people
that entire day and I met someone he was
from uber and someone who was at Google
and someone who was working a brand new
tech startup someone who had Exeter's
tech started to go pro and that's kind
of what got me interested in technology
technology I was like how can all these
people be so successful and being so
true to themselves for something like I
was hiding for so long something that I
felt was a flaw and it was at that point
so that was January 2017 when I decided
hey I want to move to San Francisco and
be I want to get into technology so for
work I was still a consultant KPMG and I
was like a kid great I need to get out
but at that point they had just moved me
to a project in London and within the
first month London I was very fortunate
to meet my would-be boyfriend Daniel and
we got speaking a lot so I wasn't out at
this point so no knew I was gay like
literally no one except for this one
people I knew and Daniel's been a
massive inspiration me so he's chief
people officer and his own startup and
he's been out for a long time but one of
the things he said to me from the
beginning was you need to find a place
where he'd be truly yourself because
that's where you'll thrive so she's been
all sorts of startups and in his first
startup he said the first part of he
joins he said when I first entered I
said to the two co-founders he was
employee number three I'm gay and that's
it and that was it that's who he is and
he wants to make sure because wherever
you could wherever you could be your
full self that's where it gonna succeed
and he's grown that company from three
people there's now 160 people not
company he's a co-founder and I looked
that two and a half years ago and I was
like that's amazing how can he be so
confident in something that is so scary
that's so many people look at you down
for and he's like because that's who you
are like you need to embrace that and
that is something that makes you very
special and so I thought great how do i
how do i come within a monthly meeting
Daniel I went back to America and ended
up coming out to all my friends and
family most of them
not everyone still and it was very
accepting and so what was next was I
need to see you on a journey through my
own career and that's how I ended up
finding Manzo's so Daniel had told me
like there's this great company and not
only are they amazing for like the
experience that you get everyone knows
it's a great app but it's also amazing
for the company culture and what they do
and how they treat people and he's like
this is the type of place where you need
to be and I remember I was like okay
sounds interesting like I have a good
job I'm kind of happy don't really know
much about this mom's a thing doesn't
exist in America we have venmo it's cool
and he's like hey look there they have a
job that's working on u.s. expansion
it's like you know I'll go in I'll meet
people and I'll talk to them and I'll
understand and I remember I came in and
we had a good friend here who was a
product manager named Valerio and he was
starting to plan the praat pride from
Anzio and he invited me come to come to
an all-hands event at Monza where he
just got in front of the entire company
small coming back then 100 people and
just said hey we're doing pride at Monza
this is really important to me I would
love if you could all get involved and
the reaction of the room was amazing I
had never seen so many people get so
supportive about people that they
weren't like so selflessly just
supportive of a community and so you see
all these stickers that are around here
like Rainbow Monza cards and stuff like
that and that is not fake that's just
like who we are and I remember thinking
holy cow like what is it like to work at
a place like that and I came to
interview and I took his advice which he
did in his person every night it came
out in my very first interview and I was
so scared in that moment because in the
past it was all about being fearful for
being gay and now Dean who's our our
chief legal officer was in the room and
he just started talking to me about
nothing and Maria who's our teeth people
or head of people at the time talking to
me about her kids Harry Potter wand that
he just got for his birthday
and I was like that's it it's that
simple like I don't need to do more than
just say I have a boyfriend like that's
it and that really was it and ever since
then like and I think that's part of the
reason why I'm here is what I realize is
all of you who are here today are
playing an important role model role to
someone who you don't even realize
you're impacting so for me it was
Michael who is that Apple and Daniel who
she knows how important spin but like
even if every day you're just going to
work and being yourself
it is so impactful in so important and I
think that's why I so quickly
volunteered to talk to new femi and
Sylvia I was like hey this is important
like this matters and Manzo's really
helped me to be everything that I ever
thought I could be so for you all who
are at different companies are are not
the right company have two pieces of
advice one is if you're at a company
which isn't treating you with the
respect that you think you deserve find
a different company there are other
places out there and it's very hard in
science technology and engineering and
maths but like there are places there
and you just have to look for them and
you deserve it you really do like you
are worth it and there are people there
who will support you and for those of
you who are in a company that supports
it and you feel like you aren't adding
anything to it you really are so just
keep being yourself
yeah it's poking be supportive and you
don't know the people your impact and
hopefully they come back to you in five
years online ten years on and just say
hey thank you but even if they're not
realized that is impactful so I'm just
here to say thank you to you all and
thank you to monsoon thank you Oboro
thank you very much so we have next Tom
Crawford
so I'm gonna do something completely
different and I'm gonna teach you all
about my favorite equation in the next
10 or 15 minutes so I don't know if you
were warned you were gonna be learning
maths but that is gonna happen I will
try to make it fun hopefully from the
title you've perhaps realized this isn't
going to be a normal maths lesson and so
here is an intro to all the various
things that I do and various people that
I work with in general my main job is to
teach maths at the University of Oxford
so I teach first year and second year
undergrads and when I'm not teaching
them I'm trying my best to make everyone
realize that maths is the best thing
ever
well you know at least get people to
like Matt's a bit more that's the
general idea and I try to have fun with
this and one of the things that I do is
a series of videos called equations
stripped where I basically take an
equation like many of these things on
the board and decide to strip back the
equation and myself as I explained the
so I'm getting into more and more
complex layers of the equation and as a
strict back those layers I just casually
have less clothes on it's it's it's a
concept
hopefully you think it's a fun concept I
obviously get mixed mixed reviews to
this but the idea here is when I was
trying to figure out why people don't
like maths a lot of the feedback I was
getting which surprised me was that
everyone thinks it's really serious you
picture a mathematician you're just
whether you're picturing male or female
and it's probably male and it's probably
an old man with crazy hair but it's very
serious there's nothing like fun or
exciting about maths it's kind of what
makes it appealing to a lot of people
maybe it has lots of rules and so I
thought I would play with that and try
and you know do that and try and make it
as least boys the loop what's done
anything about this how can I make
something be anything but serious and
the thought that came into my head was
I'll just do it my underwear so though I
I will not be stripping to my underwear
today because I
today is just gonna be a little taster
because we're hopefully gonna do a
future event or I can do the full thing
so if you're interested watch this space
but today today I will give you as I
said there's gonna be a 10-minute taster
and I have many many layers on this is
not because I'm cold this is yeah so
layer layer number one so I'm going to
tell you about the navier-stokes
equations and these are a set of
equations which model the flow of every
fluid in the universe so it's a set of
equations and any fluid you can think of
is its behavior the way it moves the way
it reacts to things is explained by the
set of equations and I do research in
fluid dynamics so I love these guys so
here is an example so at the top we've
got the river I want to say the
Connecticut River on the east coast of
the US and you can see here because the
rivers full of sand you can actually see
the water is entering the ocean and
turning to the right and for my PhD
project I was studying this so at the
bottom here is a video of some fresh
water entering a rotating tank of salt
water and turning to the right same as
we're seeing with the river so this was
I won't go into the full detail of what
I was studying but here is an example
its rivers its interactions between
rivers and oceans this is all explained
and understood through the navier-stokes
equations next this is a heart beating
it is in fact my heart beating about two
years ago I volunteered for a science
program at the BBC I volunteered to have
an ultrasound scan of my heart
absolutely terrifying because god knows
what they gotta find fortunately I was
told it was okay though I'm not sure
whether they were just saying that to be
nice but um so this is my heart beating
pumping blood around my body and now the
flow of that blood around your body is
explained and is understood through the
navier-stokes equations it's a fluid
moving around being forced by pressure
it's it's the same equations and if we
understand these equations we get better
drug delivery for example we understand
how blood flows better we can create
drugs that make the most of that
so that's a really neat application of
these equations and a third example
which is aerodynamics so if you ever
wanted to know how aerodynamic a t-rex
is here is your answer
I also ever since somebody mentioned
this on Twitter I can't get this image
out of my head
so someone commented with why am i
seeing a dinosaur fart so sorry I've
just ruined it for everybody else but
basically this is a simulation of the
airflow around a t-rex and this has just
done through the navier-stokes equations
so whilst knowing how aerodynamic a
t-rex is it's just kind of fun if you
replace the t-rex with a Formula One car
with a fighter jet with some rocket
that's going to space like these are
things you need to know and again this
is coming from the navier-stokes
equations so and finally if you're not
yet convinced by how amazing the
navier-stokes equations are they are
actually an unsolved problem so there
exist these things in maths called the
Millennium problems and this was these
were announced in year 2007 problems
that would deemed to be the most
important unsolved problems in all of
maths and if you could solve any of them
you got a million dollars now only one
has been solved and one of them is
understanding the navier-stokes
equations so you know if you're
motivated by money then you also get a
million dollars for understanding these
equations better though if you do win
I've got a little clip here to say don't
do this with your money I also felt that
was quite relevant with it not being a
liquid though if you were to model a
series of coins in that situation you
would model it like a fluid using the
navier-stokes equations but
just don't dive into a roomful of coins
okay so stripping back to layer number
two what affects how a fluid moves so
before we were going to construct these
equations we're gonna they will be there
at the end but before we get to that
let's think about what kind of variables
what kind of things do we expect to be
in the equation so rather than just
seeing a mess of Greek letters and
symbols let's think about what do these
think what are we expecting these things
to represent so I've got a few
experiments this one is a water bottle
which has a hole pierced in the water
bottle and if I play the video you're
going to see that the distance that the
water travels when it leaves the bottle
is changing because the water level is
getting lower
so what's changing here is the pressure
the water pressure is changing so the
change in pressure is causing the fluid
to behave differently so that might
suggest that we probably expect to term
in our equations that's labeled pressure
because quite clearly changing the
pressure changes the velocity and the
behavior of our fluid so pressure is the
first thing that we expect to be in the
navier-stokes equations now this one so
before I play the video I have to
explain what's going to happen so
there's a tank of water the top layer is
saltwater so this is heavy the bottom
layer is dyed green and this is
freshwater so this is light and the
layers are separated by a metal barrier
so we're going to remove the barrier
which is what's going to happen in this
video and the light green layer is going
to rise up whilst the heavy clear layer
at the top is going to sink and we get
this quite frankly amazing pattern
forming between the two fluids so this
is called the Rayleigh Taylor
instability and basically what's
happening here is the density difference
between the fluids is causing this to
happen so if you imagine doing the exact
same experiment but your two fluids have
the same density so let's say you've got
top
water on top tap water on the bottom you
remove that barrier nothing happens
because there's no density difference
but when there's a density difference
like this you get cool behavior so
density clearly has an effect on how off
flow it behaves so that's pressure
number one density number two and now
number three so this one this is my
favorite fluids experiment I say that
about a lot of fluids experiments but I
think this actually is my favorite so
this is a tank filled with salt
sorry it's sugar syrup okay so it's a
very thick sticky liquid and then we've
got three dots three blobs of food
coloring and what's going to happen is
the hand is going to rotate in circles
to mix together those blobs of food
coloring and then we're going to reverse
the direction of the stirring and you're
going to watch what happens now that's
pretty pretty magic right it's so
imagine imagine doing the same
experiment and instead of using sugar
syrup and this is completely real by the
way like I film this experiment this is
completely real this is not magic so if
you did the same experiment and you used
water instead of a thick sticky sugar
syrup that ain't gonna happen so what
the difference there is the viscosity
the thickness of a fluid is called the
viscosity and if you have a really
viscous fluid you can go forwards in
time and backwards in time and get a
reversal of behavior but you won't get
that if you have
a less viscous fluid like water or so
viscosity is gonna be our third variable
now we are on to layer three how do we
construct the equations so we've I've
talked about all the things we expect
these to describe and explain I've
talked about some of the variables you
expect to see in the equations so now
let's do a bit of physics and think
about what's going on so if I have a
blob of fluid which is that blue circle
and then my fluid moves with some
velocity maybe its shape changes don't
really care um I haven't added anything
I haven't removed anything so I think
it's fair to say that I've got the same
mass of fluid as when I started
the mass of the fluid hasn't changed so
the shape of the blob might be different
but the mass of the fluid that's not
changed so my first law is going to be
well I think mass is conserved pretty
reasonable thing we do it a lot in
physics and maths so what that means is
here's a formula for mass don't worry if
you don't understand it it doesn't
matter and then we want to say well mass
doesn't change with time so the change
in mass over time is zero you put those
two things together you get an equation
again we don't really care what that
equation is for the purposes of this
talk the point is all that equation is
telling you is I've got a blob of fluid
and it moves around a bit and goes over
here it's the same blob of fluid mass is
conserved that's the first navier-stokes
equation now the second one so the word
momentum I feel like there should be
some physicists in this room so when I
say the word momentum you are hopefully
picturing a particular person in your
head very very old dude think he died a
virgin he used to like try and make gold
he was apparently really horrible Isaac
Newton
so we're thinking here mass times
acceleration
or rate of change of momentum is equal
to force F equals MA so this formula
tells us that mass times acceleration is
equal to the sum of all the forces now
Newton's this is Newton's second law
this is true
any situation you can think of in
physics apart from like relativity and
Einstein and all that but beyond space
on earth this is really really true and
it's true in pretty much any situation
you can think of so we expect it to be
true for our fluids so let's think about
well what is mass times acceleration
that's just the density of our fluid
which is this letter Rho looks like a P
and then we've got an acceleration a
time derivative of velocity so a change
in velocity over time you're either
speeding up or slowing down that's an
acceleration so that is the left-hand
side of Newton's equation and in the
right hand side so we might expect to
have some forces we did in layer two we
looked at some of these forces we've got
a pressure term it is it is just
pressure I don't know why the e has
decided to go on the bottom line so this
is the term in pressure from our first
experiment with the water shooting out
of the bucket then we've got viscosity
term this is to do with the time
traveling fluids and then we're just
going to throw in a final thing which we
call external forces which can be
whatever we want so that could be
gravity that could be electromagnetism
whatever but now again this is just new
to the second law and this is the second
navier-stokes equation so they look
pretty horrible but all they're saying
is mass is conserved and force is mass
times acceleration this is why these
equations have been around for like
three hundred years because they are
such fundamental laws of physics that
pretty much anyone would agree is true
they just look pretty horrible
mathematically so and here is a 30
second derivation of the entire
equations to Benny Hill
should make it longer okay so now
stripping back to the fourth and final
layer this is the part when I would
normally be in my underwear
so the fourth and final layer of the
equations is well why are they so
difficult I've hopefully just convince
you that we understand them convince you
where they come from convince with what
they model so now we want to think about
well why is there a million dollars for
doing this what don't we get so there
are two things here the first one is
fluids are chaotic so this means they
are like the most random things you can
possibly think of it's almost impossible
to predict what's going to happen so
what I've got here and this is this is a
little test for you all so here are two
blobs of food coloring in a square tank
filled with water what I've done is I've
gone like this on the surface of the
water to create waves very randomly and
the whole thing is rotating I try and
picture in your head when I press play
where these two blobs of fluid are going
to move I'm going to guess it's probably
not doing what they're doing now this is
my favorite example of chaos in action
this is just incredibly random I
repeated this experiment like a hundred
times and got nothing else that looked
anything like this this is just the
random interaction of a fluid and this
is why we don't really understand what's
going on in fluid mechanics and this is
where the navier-stokes equations
struggle and then finally the other way
to deal with this so this is a bit more
technical mathematically but we have
these things in maths called
singularities basically it's dividing by
zero very bad thing don't do it in
physics a singularity would be like a
black hole again we don't really
understand those and so here's here's
the best thing I can come up with as an
example of a singularity in an
experiment so we've got two metal rings
at the top on the bottom and then
they're dipped in soap solution so like
bubble what you would blow bubbles with
and we're going to very slowly move the
two rings apart and what you're gonna
see is that to start with there's a very
very gradual change in the shape and
then eventually so it's really small
really small really smaller is more and
then it just pops so this is a really
really sudden change in the volume of
that object it sort of jumps from a
non-zero value to zero in a split second
that's kind of a way of visualizing
what's going on with singularities so
the reason the way you're going to get
the million dollars is either
understanding the chaotic motion of
turbulence or being able to
mathematically explain a singularity and
I think is gonna bring me oh and then
lay a five now this this is always risky
but maybe perhaps not so much seeing as
I still have some level of clothes on
but normally at this point I would say
does anyone have the solution to the
navier-stokes equations worth a million
dollars because not only do you get a
million dollars but I will also take off
the final layer and shape myself
completely back so I mean there's anyone
feel like right now I take you right so
thank you very much if you want to find
out more about what I do you can check
out my website on social media and
obviously I'll be around for questions
and stuff later
[Applause]
very much and we have our last speaker
for the evening Mary Williams hello I'm
afraid I've got a disability and so I
can't sit on one of those for 15 minutes
how is everybody
you're being very polite I feel like
like a guided tour of your taps would
have been a extra cool thing or like
we're doing Q&A later somebody needs to
ask for the guided tour of the TAT hi
I'm Mary um I'm CTO at Mons Oh um I've
been asked to sort of talk a bit about
being queer in stem and then talk about
about what I do for my job as all do
with this so despite the accent I'm
South African originally and I grew up
gay in apartheid which was not fun shall
we say I think anybody who knows
anything about apartheid knows that it
was pretty awful let's be honest
and so I I grew up pretty terrified and
that someone would find out that I get
killed
cuz that happened when I was a kid um I
was in primary school when the Sarkin
Safran military got found out for
experimenting on queer people in service
castrating them to see if it fixed them
and doing forced gender transitions that
people didn't have any any choice in so
some fairly horrific stuff happening
people it was obviously a huge amount of
horrific stuff happening that was around
race and but it wasn't it wasn't a fun
place in general to be and so I kind of
grew up and this is all this is all
fairly desolate it gets funny soon I
promise
don't worry so I obviously grew up
terrified and pretty pretty good at like
sciency stuff I was a hardware hacker
early I'm early on and built my first
computer from parts when I was about
eight or eight or nine because we
couldn't afford to have them and then I
just through luck got involved with a
built part of South Africa's first
satellite when I was a kid and when I
was a teenager and who have your parents
come on usually I got a couple in the
audience Lee so I have great parenting
advice for any of you who do become
parents in future which is don't let
them do anything cool when they're young
I like I sold it something that went
into space when I was at Gorky sixteen
year old and it's all been
downhill since then like it's really
hard to be cooler than your shitty
sixteen-year-old self who put something
in the stratosphere anyway and so I yeah
I I lived through emancipation and
democratic elections and a new
constitution that said like maybe we
were allowed to live and that was a very
a very big change and but it's after the
the the social change has really lagged
behind legal change so it's still not
particularly a safe place to be or to be
out um but then the internet happened
when I was when I was a teen and that
was that was epic because I like found
out the world was out there and I'd you
know as a young lesbian in apartheid
South Africa like my access to gay
culture was pretty pretty limited right
but in the early days of the internet
which some of you are probably far too
young to remember there were these thing
called message boards if you want to
find other lesbians on the Internet xena
message boards was where you found other
lesbians on the Internet
and so I found people who are like me
around the world and that was pretty
weird and pretty cool and led to some
odd experiences that I came over here to
study and did computer science and which
was object lesson and being very
outnumbered gender wise which was which
was interesting but the first time I
went to the States was was pre 9/11 and
it was to attend a Zeno convention when
the show was still on when it was still
like a big thing and with a bunch people
who I only knew online and and that it
was it was weird and it was cool it was
like 6,000 people in Pasadena for a
weekend
5950 women and 50 guys going my odds are
pretty good this weekend and slowly
realizing how wrong
the kind of guy who turns up at a Xena
convention think he's gonna get lucky is
a whole new level of like obtuse right
like who watches that showing goes I yes
lots of heterosexual women will be there
for me to date it's fascinating
anyway but yeah so my first her to the
US was was that my second trip to the US
was like going back to visit the this
couple who I they're kind of like my
adoptive moms at this point right that
they're what a lot older than me but I
knew them when I was a kid in laughing I
knew them online they helped me kind of
make it into adulthood and I went back
to visit them after 9/11 and it was a
very understandably a very different
immigration experience it was a lot less
welcome to the USA and a lot more why
are you here I was like visiting some
friends where did you meet these friends
there's like a huge guy with a guy with
a look like a assault rifles two behind
him and all I can think is on the
Internet is so the wrong answer to this
question right like I'm gonna end up in
a small box in a small room nobody will
ever hear from me again so I'm like last
year in California what were you in
California for a convention what
convention I'm like I'm not lying to
immigration that's also a way to end up
in a small box the rest of my xena
convention and this this huge guy just
like looked at me and raised an eyebrow
and went Xena Warrior Princess yes and
like you know when somebody looks at you
can you can tell the moment that they're
really sure you're not a terrorist
because a terrorist will have a better
lie like I'm pretty sure there's
still a mark on my file somewhere which
is like this is the Zita convention girl
I've amazed they still let me into the
country anyway so yeah so my growing up
queer in stem was like weird it was very
very repressive regime that I went that
I that I grew up and I have British
parents which is like a weird thing my
dad's biggest problem me being gay is it
shows him he's not quite as liberal as
he thinks he is which is an interesting
thing to unpack but I remember then like
turning up here and going to university
in in this country and it just being
really like oh like there's an LGBT
LGB at the time society and like that's
an okay thing to have and at my uni the
Christian Union wasn't supported by the
Students Union because they wouldn't let
people who were and who were queer join
the Christian Union so the Catholic
Society was part of the Students Union
but the Christian Union was excluded and
it was like really interesting I'd never
been anywhere that would have made that
that kind of choice before and then I'd
yeah ended up and so my my career has
been a kind of all tech focused kind of
weird set of different different things
my LinkedIn profile is available I'm
really not gonna run through my CV for
you and but the first ten years of my
career spent at Procter & Gamble and I
was lucky enough there to be part of the
first LGBT network that existed outside
of the states and that was also like
quite a weird thing it's a p.m. Gees
headquarters is Cincinnati Ohio which I
will tell you right now is not exactly
San Francisco like it's any city where
they're proud of the fact they put chili
on spaghetti you got a worry about the
level of sophistication right if it's
cinnamon in it as well and like you're
all welcome to your food choices but no
as I was so I had this sort of odd
experience of being in this like very
Midwestern company that was but was
trying to trying to do the right thing
and care about having access to the best
talent and cared about and doing things
right I remember
Linda's lemon Holmes who went on to be
CIO like somebody asked her a question
about how we operate where 140,000
employees we operated in all these
different countries in the world how are
we gonna have policies and have benefits
that were like good enough everyone went
in some places it was illegal to even
ask a question about your orientation it
was illegal to treat unmarried couples
who are often same-sex couples the same
as as married couples and she she
basically like look to run away is
anybody from HR or legal here no okay so
my real answer is we're just gonna do it
anyway and we're gonna argue with the
government's when they decide to try and
like fine us for it but my HR legal
answer is different so if you're from HR
illegal come to me afterward I thought
it was quite it's quite interesting for
me we did a lot of work with Stonewall
at the time and that was cool
and so that's what a bit like I'm now
and now here this is the first the first
company I've ever worked for we're like
over indexed on LGBT which is kind of
Awesome right like there's there's not
many places I'm like oh should it should
is it okay that we have like 24% of the
company is a square I mean it's cool but
it but it's different to everywhere else
I've been and that's been that's been
really really nice and really cool and
quite quite different and but I've done
a lot of work over the years I'm I'm CTO
for one so I build and lead big
technology teams and quite honestly like
a lot of technologies issues are much
more around inclusion issues and kind of
representation issues tend to be more
obvious and focused around race religion
and and gender and unfortunately and so
like being in a space where people are
like really impressed when you have 25
percent of your team are like women and
non-binary is is very different to some
other some other areas and yeah but
building these big teams and one of
things I really like at munzo before I
quite often turn up and after like fix
big gender pay gap issues and benefits
problems on the rest of it like joining
here was a delight because there was
over representation and in some unusual
groups and but a lot of thought had gone
into things and a lot of value was a
really really evident from having that
representation so a bunch of our
engineers the trans and they've done
some really good work early on going we
shouldn't dead named people you
shouldn't have someone get in touch with
support and be called by a name that
they don't recognize as theirs anymore
and so they'd from quite early on done
some really good hard work to get that
recognized and to build it into the
product I think it's been a very easy
thing to point to him be like see this
is the value of having broad range of
people represented we build better
things as a result of it that's been
cool
I'm also on stonewalls board these days
which has been a trip
certainly for the last year a lot of
people objecting a lot to just I want
becoming much more trans-inclusive and
that's been a a tough thing for the
organization there too to live through
and I the other work I do I'm a chair
and co-curate and host the lead death
which is a I mean it's a technology
conference it's a leadership conference
disguised as a technology conference but
like don't tell anybody that's the huge
secret that I tell hundreds of people at
a time
my favorite quote about lead dev a
speaker on hearing that we so we like
we're single track so that everybody
experiences the same thing we have I'll
do like putting the people who most
need to hear the DNI talk of the ones
who are least likely to attend the day
and I talk right and so I'll put it in
the middle of a session so then you have
you can't just like fail to come back
from lunch or head out to the break
early you have to stand up in the middle
of twelve fourteen hundred people now
it's fourteen hundred people at the
Barbican and like actively walk out of
the room so like apply social pressure
make sure that everybody hit like people
who most need to hear the message or
most likely to hear it and and on
explaining this once to speaker they'd
they decided to but the thing they like
best about us was how intentionally
subversive we were which I now need is a
tattoo right like I'm like intentially
subversive hashtag lead them so yeah I
do
bunch of all that kind of stuff this
kind of unstructured like just talk
about who you are I find super
uncomfortable in case it's not evident
and the one I suppose useful like some
somebody already talking about fluid
dynamics or the maths behind fluid
dynamics I suppose is really what you
did and the one useful like framework I
suppose I could share with everybody
I've done I've by a number of different
organizations been asked like come in
and help them figure out why they're
having such trouble recruiting and
retaining diversity people or
representative set of people and and
there's a frame of if I use with them
that that you may find useful and so
I'll share it which is basically to go
fundamentally people are asking three
questions when they're deciding whether
to join some
where to stay somewhere whether you're
doing this consciously or subconsciously
you're asking yourself these questions
all the time which is am I expected
there does it look like they ever
anticipated someone like me might work
there if you need to if you're a
practicing Muslim and you need to pray
multiple times a day you're much more
likely to apply to the place that lists
the fact it has a prayer room up front
or the place that seems to have its
terminology down so refers to parental
leave rather than Matt leave Pat leave
that presumes genders of the you know
primary care a partner and and the other
and am i respected here d have a
positive interaction - people seem to
value the ways in which you're different
as well as the ways in which you are
similar are they thinking more about
culture ad and culture fit and then can
I be myself and be successful here and
and I I think I used to think role
modeling didn't matter very much and I'd
been you know in the 10% of women on a
computer science course and largely
unbothered by who who else was on the
courts to be honest and and then I got
put in charge of recruitment at Proctor
and anytime we had a woman speak at a
event at uni we got like between 200 and
300 percent more applications removin
than when we didn't have any
representation - I was like I'm
wrong I love when data to prove me wrong
it's my favorite way to learn a hard
lesson and I think that thing of can I
be myself and be successful here it's
not always about finding someone who's
just like you and going yeah I can I can
I can see someone exactly like me but
five or ten years ahead and I I can see
myself going there sometimes it's about
just seeing some difference some
evidence that there's different ways to
be successful I joke a lot like unlit
early the one that the Daily Mail warned
you about right like I'm I'm a woman
working in tech I'm an immigrant with a
job which i think is worse than if I
were like living off the state but I've
got to check the headlines regularly to
be fair and I've got a disability and
I'm neurodiverse and queer and I'm you
know my why
British and literally over here like
stealing your women and your jobs so she
hates that joke she's getting used to it
but I you know but I I grew up whites in
apartheid so and I'm cisgender so I I
understand like unasked undeserved
privilege like some of us are all of us
are probably getting the benefit of
something that we didn't have any part
in choosing at the point that we're
there but I'll be honest like I don't
see many direct role models for myself
that's quite a combo of checklists to
add up for to find so I tend to look a
bit more for is there any evidence that
people aren't just carbon copies of each
other and I've worked places where
people are genuinely super different in
the leadership team and they're in the
executive team when you're like oh wow
those must be some interesting off sites
right I love those kind of leadership
teams you just like people coming to an
agreement must be pretty tough but
probably better decisions are made for
the for the sake of it I've also worked
places where like literally it looked
like people wearing matching underwear
as well as matching ties and matching
haircuts
I worked somewhere which you can work
out super easily where it is but I feel
better for not saying the name of the
company and well it genuinely looked
like the set of leaders that was on
stage in front of thousands of people
that they were like carbon copies of
each other and the organisation at the
time had this ad campaign about doing
things for the first time and the ad
that they had was really cool and it was
two old ladies like taking a flight for
the first time in their 80s and they and
they were very excited and it was very
very cute
and then the person comparing this kind
of off-site made the mistake of asking
this identikit a set of leaders what
they were gonna do for the very first
time in their lives the first guy goes
make a meal for my family yeah that was
the sound that was the sound but like
thousand thousands of people making that
sound right and they didn't like throw
the brakes on and stop at that point
which is what I would have done
they asked the next guy what he was
gonna do and he went laundry yeah yeah
that noise again and I happened to be
sat next to the poor person who was
so for diversity and inclusion at this
organization I kind of leaned everyone
so Tina I think what I'm hearing is it's
a good thing that I have a wife already
but she needs to stop with this like
designing hospitals my wife's
an architect and like stay home and do
my laundry and make my dinner right for
me to end up on that stage and she was
literally just the head in her hands and
at the break of like a hundred people
came to complain like we stood in a
queue to complain to her about this I
was like yeah this is like an object
lesson and how to up representation
on a grand scale right anyway so I think
on so that's a little bit of like where
it came from a little bit of like how
dark and depressing being a kid
in a pot that's laughter was a little
bit about technology teams and a
framework for how to inventory your own
role and where you want to be next like
are you expected are you respected can
you be yourself and be successful you
can also use that to audit how your
organization is doing when somebody
looks at your website do they see
anything other than beer and foosball
tables which like that's my that's my
like worryingly common experiences
belong to me like we just don't
understand why nobody who's not a
straight white dude who's 25 will apply
to our deaf jobs I'm like literally the
only benefits you mention are like oh no
I'm sorry you do have beer Wednesdays
you also have cocktail Fridays and the
food table I apologize for
misunderstanding the prayer like no
wonder nobody else is applying right
like other things matter to people but
in here
the so that I suppose on us wasn't
closing here's a useful bit of
information don't time travel back to
apartheid South Africa it was and
don't do anything like your kids do
anything cool when they're young it's
all downhill if you let them do
something too cool when they're too
young oh good cool I think we're doing
Q&A now so I'm gonna hand okay let's
thank Mary
[Applause]
ten minutes to get a bit more pizza bit
more drinks go to the toilet so that
clock is saying 2009
[Music]
[Laughter]
hello sorry I was chatting and didn't
realize the time so okay let's see
another minute sir just relax all right
we're still waiting for merrier if you
want to you can grab drink as well yeah
alright welcome to the Q&A part of the
evening I think we are about 20 minutes
50 minutes so
anyone got any question for each or all
of the speakers Gregor we got a shout
box I by the way first of all thank you
for volunteering this information I do
not imagine it was easy for any of you
to stand and speak about your
experiences and I think it's really
commendable that you were able to
articulate whatever you did so thank you
for sharing and so my question is for
I've worked in tech companies before and
it's a very formulaic way of saying that
we're diverse very inclusive
it's like saying all the right things
that PR wants you to say and it shows so
what you're saying and describing about
Manzo's seems a lot more intrinsic where
does that come from because it really
has to come from a core value system
that you know a core group of people at
monza believe in and so like where does
that come from look how beautifully he
Teflon that so I think we're both
relatively new when did or like in munzo
times were old hands because we've been
here longer than a year but and it
started with the the very early core
team and I think the people who are here
from the very beginning cared a lot
about this I heard of people at Aras
awesome on these things and I think
there's a general culture of being very
data driven and data based and so
the company did like internal surveys
and really wanted to understand what it
was like from a much earlier point than
I've typically seen other companies do
um and there's a lot of places that talk
about being transparent working
somewhere where it's like really really
Trent like scarily transparent sometimes
has been quite different for me and and
but it really is I think when you look
at like our are DNI report online it's
very upfront about what we think we're
not doing greater as well and and I
think that gives people more reason to
believe but yeah so that it started with
the initial core team that's or 1012
people and and it's something that they
care deeply about and always have done
and I think whenever we make a decision
as a business whether it's about
benefits to offer or anything else
people do stop and think of it from all
the different perspectives not not just
from kind of their own personal default
and I think that initial seed team is
fairly representative as well and on a
number of you think so Mary's obviously
been super instruments on this I
remember when Mary first came to our old
office were in all hands and started
talking about her experience how
impressive it was for a tech company
just be able to not only bring in
somewhat of such amazing talent but also
someone who celebrates diversity and
inclusion so much and so from the start
of Mary's tenure and then a bunch of
other people on Zoo bring in now we have
a new head of diversity inclusion coming
in and that was a key senior hire for us
but I think it really starts from tone
at the top and Mary's a perfect example
of that and the one example I have is I
was a part of the u.s. expansion team
and we were looking at a very senior US
hire and I sat in a room of 14 very
senior people in Monza it all said yes
to this person's interview and I went
walked into the room and I had said you
know what he makes me feel uncomfortable
like it feels like he comes from a place
where there's toxic culture in the tech
company tech cultures of the US he came
into dinner with me and to started
talking about things that made me feel
uncomfortable and in that room the
entire leadership team at that
cause the application said you know what
let's take a better look at this person
because culture matters so much to us
that if you feel uncomfortable Asst we
might have missed something and we ended
up not hiring this person and I look at
that as a real sign of true tone at the
top of like we care about our people
it's not just something that we say it's
something that we truly believe in start
to Tom and Mary etc I'd also say like
Tom you know Tom will joke about himself
but you know he's a say 33 year old ex
management consultant white dude but I
have never worked anywhere where I can
put my hand on my heart when somebody
goes this bad thing happened to me
should I report it like everywhere else
I've worked I've been like well you
should but here's what's gonna happen if
you do and here's the risk for you and
you need to make the right like I've
always had and I've had a lot of those
comers I've had a long career at this
point I managed a lot of people I've
helped a lot of people coaching and
mentoring and stuff and this is the
first place where I work where I just go
I know 100% certain that if somebody
reports something that isn't okay has
happened to them I trust with my entire
being that Tom will do the right thing
and that if I see the investigation or
the way it's being handled not going the
right way that the minute I highlight it
to him he will jump in and fix the
out of it and that is incredibly
valuable from someone who is like people
talk about being allies and that kind of
stuff but like there's a great talk by
Doretta bozo and she's very senior
engineer over in the States and she says
don't just be an ally um she's like I
don't want allies anymore I want
accomplices I want you to be ready to
like commit the crime with me and like I
think that's the stand that we should
set for people these days like we want
the people who will go chain them chain
themselves to the to the railings with
us who will get involved and put
themselves on the line to make it right
and and I'm like I think it genuinely
shows that that's what I see here I was
like any matters right
any more questions
so I work at Lloyds as an actuary which
is I guess headline-making in terms of
its culture in good and bad ways but
what I was gonna ask about was I guess
the other way around this year was
probably the first time I rejected a job
offer where I thought that the culture
wasn't quite right didn't feel like it
was inclusive so I was wondering whether
anyone thought that there was any value
or whether there was a way to
potentially signal to that company that
I didn't feel that something was right
and maybe they should have a think about
their own diversity inclusion given that
I don't work there so obviously it would
be a very collected amount of feedback
but I just thought do you think that
there is some responsibility on our
partners you're not not only signal the
places that we're proud and happy to
work for but also ones where we think
I'm not choosing this role for a reason
and this is why anyone wants to take
that okay I can give you my sort of
interpretation with that I would always
speak up but I came to a place in which
I can run to and shout and complain
about a lot of institution simply
because I'm lucky enough to be external
to them and not depending of how they
how much they care and what they're
gonna do with my criticism so I think it
comes down to a personal choice if you
think that that will harm you in any way
it's it's a risk that you need to decide
but if you think that you can put it in
a way that it could be a beneficial
feedback for them even just I don't know
bypassing whoever was hiring you and
moving on to the diversity officer all
that could be something that they might
appreciate I can't speak to
people should do for industry but in
academia for certain I set on several
committees at the University and when
people send letters because they've not
accepted an offer because they felt
uncomfortable because a stuffy old white
man interviewed them yeah we take that
stuff quite seriously and because people
are aware nowadays they take it quite
seriously so I would pipe up and
personally I have piped up and it does
start to make change it's very
incremental but it does make a change in
if the more of us speak what we believe
to be how we feel the less it becomes or
making amends for this minority rather
than actually being aware of what is
different in what we need a question I
think it's actually a bit more of the
same I'm afraid iteration of the
question so we've talked about how what
so important it ones on and why that's
so good and we've talked about companies
that you're outside of that you might
want to give constructive feedback to
what happens when you were within a site
within a company that you want to shift
to a different direction because I know
the Mary you said that you know in in
companies that you've worked in
previously you know what we action
that's gonna have someone's probably
gonna get defensive they're probably
gonna put a wall up and I just think
that people who are in companies it can
be a very very tricky balance and I
wonder whether it's something that you
should go for head-on or try and so I
don't think this one there's a
one-size-fits-all answer I the framework
right shared I think is useful where you
go like who's expected who's respected
and who can be themselves and be
successful the reason I find it useful
as it's fairly it's a way of stepping
out of your personal experience and
generalizing and going low so the way I
run those workshops is basically to go
everybody from how you feel
did you feel expected did you feel
respected did you could you do you feel
like you can be a sultan to be
successful here and then I basically
give everybody a hat and they you know
for the day you're representing people
disabilities near a diverse people and
you know ex-military or veterans and so
on right and sort of sometimes
strategically choose people to be having
to put the Hat on of something that they
are least liked right and and I think
the useful part of that is it helps
people go like oh yeah we don't
we're not helping people who are
neurodiverse come to their interview
because we don't share enough
information about how to get to the
office and how like frankly hound how
noisy all of our surrounding
Underground's are here it actually helps
if you go you struggle with noise like
where your noise cancelling headphones
you like once you get to the office it's
much quieter if you need like quiet
space to recover like we can provide
that all of those kinds of things I
think are people get less defensive if
you offer solutions and people get less
offensive if you offer a very work I
suppose my advice I would also say do
not martyr yourself on being the one
person trying to change an intensely
toxic place like very very honestly I've
kind of moved from being like willing to
stage the war anywhere that I am to
choosing my battlegrounds a bit more I
suppose and I genuinely believe all of
the data shows that diverse teams
outperform Majin esteems every day of
every week for ever and so you don't
have to stay and make some toxic
homogeneous place better
you can leave there go somewhere else
that makes you happier and they will be
outperformed and out competed by a
better team because that's what the data
says will happen right like you don't
have to save everywhere you can go
somewhere else and be part of that being
better and just watch them wither and
die on the vine like choose your energy
I'm not saying give up one everywhere
that you are but like don't you if you
are the only person trying to make a
difference in in amongst thousands
you're going to burn you out and you're
probably not going to help the
organization that you're in like choose
where you spend your energy and don't
sacrifice your
physical mental health and and your own
career trying to fix people who don't
want to be fixed and and I know that's
really tough to make that judgment but I
think that's where the judgment starts
it's like is this place worth your
energy to try and change and if there it
is then there's probably some people who
are passive allies that you could turn
into active accomplices so like find
your crew you know BK do crimes together
right hi um thank you all so I'm happy
to hear about Manzo and which is pretty
remarkable but also very I'm thinking of
the word what's the word no but you're a
disrupt disrupt her bangs like you said
Mary or like go to another place and
you'll find you know this is the future
and don't have perform the big four for
Krishna and Tom who are more in academia
I'm curious because I don't hear as much
about that it's you touched on it a bit
but how is the culture how do you feel
the culture is there at this moment
where it's not nearly at the disruptor
phase of monza - of Barclays and what
can anyone do to progress that both of
you either
so my experience Oxford has been quite
interesting and if I'm honest the main
thing for me has been somebody with
piercings and tattoos because that's
like the first thing perhaps someone
would notice about me when I walk in for
an interview and I have walked into a
few interviews for teaching positions a
couple of years ago when I was first
trying to get a position at University
and I
can tell immediately when I walk into
the room from the way the old white
dudes are looking at me that I'm not
gonna get that job and I've always been
right so like and that's before you even
get on to anything else that's literally
just the fact that I'm turning up with a
lip ring with tattoos on my arms so the
way I've tried to deal with that get
around that is sort of to try and find
allies within the university that are
well respected so this is not easy this
is not perhaps relevant to most people
I've been very fortunate to find these
people but as an example my former tutor
so I was an undergraduate student at
Oxford and my former tutor I'm pretty
sure the college where I now teach with
him as my colleague would not have hired
me if I had gone and applied for a
teaching position because the people
that would have been interviewing me
would have seen tattoos piercings
whatever else be like no we're a very
traditional college and it's all etc but
because he fortunately is a really nice
guy and remembers oh no tom was a good
student and like you know actually
respects me as a mathematician um I was
able to on his say he basically spoke to
the college and then got me in to teach
so obviously I'm very fortunate I had
that connection
for sure but as I said that was sort of
my way of them getting into a very
perhaps not that welcoming environment
but then I with what you were saying
about you want to be out of these things
completely agree but at the same time I
because not everybody and again this is
probably more relevant to academia not
everybody is like that and so I've been
able to meet other like-minded people
and sort of help to change things from
within without many issues but I'm still
as I said I'm so pretty sure that I
wouldn't have got the job
if I'd have actually like sort of
applied the proper way based on my other
experiences with other similar positions
and interviews
hey that was remotely useful I mean I
probably add a bit to that what I'm
saying like you kind of have to pick
your battles a bit as well so I went
from engineering where I was incredibly
uncomfortable and made to feel
incredibly uncomfortable to surgery
both male-dominated environments both
very hard working environments where in
surgery I felt part of the family it was
just the approach and the awareness and
it wasn't I was still the only gay
person in there both environments just
kind of weird and into that that you
know again it's picking your battles and
finding people who care who understand
who appreciate who then listen and make
changes and other departments around the
hospital we've seen what surgery's done
and how we do things and other people
were starting to do it but equally it's
meant that I've also wanted to stand up
and talk about it and speak about it
because I'm feeling safe enough and
realizing that other people might have
felt as uncomfortable as I did - then do
little bits and pieces and move forwards
from it and just have everybody with you
to do it alongside and help out so it is
picking your battles it doesn't have the
same push I think industry gets because
the recruitment part is quite critical
whereas in academia kids are gonna keep
coming regardless but you want people to
feel comfortable when they do it it's
really picking your battles one last
question and thank you and the five
people tell you you have said great
different parts of science technology
engineering and math so if there's one
thing you could change we hear pride in
steps there's one that you can change in
the field for the people in our proud in
stem over the next 12 months or would it
be one thing you could change just to
qualify a wish or something that we can
actually make it happen
good know either either okay yeah the
wish is burning the patrica to the
ground like salting the earth and
everything to make it up and I think a
double prong approach of forgetting a
more in the stem community but also
ending up sorts of sciencing up the
queer community spot and I'd like to
wish that people don't just
automatically seem cuz I'm called
Krishna I'm a boy that would be a really
good thing that'll happen in life and in
reality I'd really like to see the fact
that we can actually be more fair and
even in science and actually not worry
about agenda the sexuality elements of
things like it shouldn't matter and I
really like to see that happen
come back to me so I'm so new this okay
for like two and two and a half years
but to me like moms are my current team
apart epitomizes what I would have
dreamed amazing to be like so I lead a
team of 12 people and for them thank our
LGBT it's a bit crazy I know very
over-index but to me the thing that is
amazing is I wish that ever across the
world people in the space feel like they
could just show up at work and it's not
even a question it doesn't matter
because I didn't know that someone on my
team was LGBT recently until four months
of working with them and it just didn't
matter and that's what I wish for
everyone it just doesn't matter
for me it would be when someone thinks
of a mathematician not to think of an
old straight white dude I don't care
what they think of as long as it's not
that I the thing I think that
we'll have the most positive difference
would be for us to I think it's really
important we call out when shit's gone
wrong like Apple watch not working on
non-white skin was like
right I think we talked a lot about when
it goes wrong and and I'd love us to
have more examples and tell better
stories about the times were having
representation and having people who
could see all sides of a problem solve
the problem in a better way I'm very
like hands-on application kind of
focused in in stem terms and as I think
more great stories about how we achieved
more by having that broader range of
people involved it would be awesome and
actually like I'd probably set the bar
higher like I I think like indifference
or it not mattering or like tolerance is
where we've aspired to for a long for a
long time but like I'm sorry for
disagreeing with my fellow panelists
here but like I think tolerance is like
a terrible thing to aspire to right like
my little brother kind of hates me but
he tolerates me because we're family
like you don't want someone putting up
with you despite who you are you want
someone valuing everything that you are
and I think that's what like aiming for
real inclusion is about is getting the
most out of how everybody is different
and like everybody's different doesn't
mean just us it doesn't mean people who
fit one particularly demographic like
the fundamental misunderstanding that
everybody has about why diverse teams
outperform others
we think it's cuz it's easier and it's
actually because it's harder like
getting a set of people who have really
different experiences and world views
and opinions and like contexts to agree
on what the right thing to do you get to
better answer because it's harder as if
I could wave a magic wand and make stem
better I take a bunch of people who are
otherwise so rational but really
frustrate me with believing in the
soft skills fairy right like we
as an industry act like there's a soft
skills fairy and your touch
for the wand at birth and that's it
forever and I'm like how can a group of
people who believe that anybody can lend
code believe that nobody could ever
learn like a soft skill and if they
started past the age of two it annoys
the out of me as you can tell
that's why I run a Leadership Conference
this guy is just a tech conference and
as if I could wave a magic wand it would
be for us as a as a set of industries as
a set of academic areas like I would
love stem to care as much about building
those skills to bring people together to
have useful conversations to facilitate
a really really different set of people
coming to a better solution because
they're different not in spite of the
differences or not ignoring those
differences like that would be the thing
I would get if I could if I could wave a
magic wand is the soft skills very
and let's get as good at developing
those skills as we are at developing our
research and our and our technical and
our scientific skills okay thank you
very much we are now finished for the
night so please follow us on all our
social media because I love the
attention like desperate for it
and please put your hands together for
our wonderful speakers for tonight
please eat the pizza or take it home
with you because it will just get thrown
away don't really eat the pizza please
eat pizza
thank you everyone we really loved
having you here and please if you are
interested in careers at Monza please
follow the link on the banner our
concert write to us and we'll be closing
up at 9 p.m. yeah thank you thank
somebody